---
layout: post
title: On Jekyll, living in the future, and bias

redirect_from: /2016/03/01/on-jekyll.html
---


As you may have read, recently GitHub Pages [updated the version of Jekyll](https://github.com/blog/2100-github-pages-now-faster-and-simpler-with-jekyll-3-0) they run to 3.0. 

With that, there's a number of features they mention as requiring some manual intervention. Right at the bottom of the GitHub post, there's a link to the Jekyll [Upgrade Guide](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/upgrading/2-to-3/). 

One of the features mentioned in this document is the `--future` flag. This is a feature that was previously `true` by default, but now is `false` by default. 

What this feature does is allow future-dating of posts: you can write something and it will be in your git repo, but not be published until you build after the post date. 

Which means that if I write and test a new post locally this is fine, but if I push it to GitHub, it may not appear. I wrote a quick post yesterday at around 8am my time, and it didn't appear on GitHub. 

Yesterday was Feb 29. So, I assumed (spoiler: incorrectly) that this was a leap year bug. 

What *actually* happened is I blogged in the morning. 

Turns out since being forced to use Jekyll 3, this was the first time I had posted so early as to appear as though I was future-dating content, which by default is now not displayed. And GitHub Pages runs on Pacific time (UTC-08:00). I'm current on UTC+11:00. Can you see the problem?

According to GitHub, I'm posting from _the future_!

Now, the fix for this is as follows: add this to your `config.yml`

```
timezone: Australia/Sydney
```

.. replacing `timezone` with a value as defined by [tzdata](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tz_database). 

To enable future-posting, set: 

```
future: true
```

But, because this issue just happened to be encountered on Feb 29, it was assumed to be a Leap Year bug. [I wasn't the only one to think this](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/issues/4607). This is just another example of bias being attributed to a misdiagnosis of a problem. 


